README.md, before:

# mobile-ffmpeg
Source code & scripts to build FFmpeg for Android and IOS platform

#### Features
- Supports both Android and IOS
- Can be customized to support a specific platform and/or library
- Licensed under LGPL 3.0

#### Architectures
##### Android
- arm-v7a
- arm-v7a-neon
- arm64-v8a
- x86
- x86_64

##### IOS
- arm-v7
- arm-v7s
- arm64-v8a
- x86_64

#### FFmpeg Support
This repository contains FFmpeg version 3.4.2 with support for the following external libraries.

- fontconfig
- freetype
- fribidi
- gmp
- gnutls
- libiconv
- lame
- libass
- libtheora
- libvorbis
- libvpx
- libwebp
- libxml2
- opencore-amr
- shine
- speex
- wavpack

External libraries and their dependencies are explained in the [External Libraries](doc/EXTERNAL_LIBRARIES.md) page.

#### Motivation

Github includes many repositories which include instructions to build FFmpeg from source.
Most of them are platform specific and include instructions to build only one mobile platform, either Android or IOS.
Furthermore, majority of them mainly focuses on building FFmpeg only.
External libraries required are not covered.

Some repositories are licensed under GPL and bound you to open your source code if you distribute your application.

This repository aims to fill this gap and help everyone who needs to use FFmpeg on both mobile platforms with support
for external libraries without any GPL restrictions.

#### Prerequisites

- gcc required by freetype
- cmake v3.9.x or later required by libwebp
- gperf required by fontconfig
- pkg-config required by freetype and ffmpeg

##### Android

Android NDK is required to build Android platform

##### IOS

XCode is required to build IOS platform

#### Usage

Use `android.sh` to build FFmpeg for Android. Visit [ANDROID](doc/ANDROID.md) page for all build options.

#### LICENSE

Files provided by this project are licensed under the LGPL v3.0.
Source code of external libraries, FFmpeg and other supported libraries, is included with their individual licenses.

Visit [LICENSE](doc/LICENSE.md) page for the details.

#### See Also

- [FFmpeg License and Legal Considerations](https://ffmpeg.org/legal.html)

Commit message:

README files moved under wiki.

README.md, after:

# mobile-ffmpeg
Source code & scripts to build FFmpeg for Android and IOS platform

### Features
- Supports both Android and IOS
- Can be customized to support a specific platform and/or library
- Licensed under LGPL 3.0

### Architectures
#### Android
- arm-v7a
- arm-v7a-neon
- arm64-v8a
- x86
- x86_64

#### IOS
- arm-v7
- arm-v7s
- arm64-v8a
- x86_64

### FFmpeg Support
This repository contains FFmpeg version 3.4.2 with support for the following external libraries.

- fontconfig
- freetype
- fribidi
- gmp
- gnutls
- libiconv
- lame
- libass
- libtheora
- libvorbis
- libvpx
- libwebp
- libxml2
- opencore-amr
- shine
- speex
- wavpack

Supported libraries and their dependencies are explained in the [Supported Libraries](wiki/Supported-Libraries) wiki page.

### Motivation

Github includes many repositories which include instructions to build FFmpeg from source.
Most of them are platform specific and include instructions to build only one mobile platform, either Android or IOS.
Furthermore, majority of them mainly focuses on building FFmpeg only.
Supported libraries required are not covered.

Some repositories are licensed under GPL and bound you to open your source code if you distribute your application.

This repository aims to fill this gap and help everyone who needs to use FFmpeg on both mobile platforms with support
for external libraries without any GPL restrictions.

### Prerequisites

- gcc required by freetype
- cmake v3.9.x or later required by libwebp
- gperf required by fontconfig
- pkg-config required by freetype and ffmpeg

#### Android

Android NDK is required to build Android platform

#### IOS

XCode is required to build IOS platform

### Usage

Use `android.sh` to build FFmpeg for Android. Visit [android.sh](wiki/android.sh) wiki page for all build options.

### LICENSE

Files provided by this project are licensed under the LGPL v3.0.
Source code of external libraries, FFmpeg and other supported libraries, is included with their individual licenses.

Visit [License](wiki/License) wiki page for the details.

### See Also

- [FFmpeg License and Legal Considerations](https://ffmpeg.org/legal.html)
