@node API reference
@appendix API reference
@cindex API reference

@menu
* Core TLS API::
* Datagram TLS API::
* X509 certificate API::
* PKCS 7 API::
* OCSP API::
* PKCS 12 API::
* PKCS 11 API::
* TPM API::
* Abstract key API::
* Socket specific API::
* DANE API::
* Cryptographic API::
* Compatibility API::
@end menu

@node Core TLS API
@section Core TLS API

The prototypes for the following functions lie in
@file{gnutls/gnutls.h}.

@include gnutls-api.texi

@node Datagram TLS API
@section Datagram TLS API

The prototypes for the following functions lie in
@file{gnutls/dtls.h}.

@include dtls-api.texi

@node X509 certificate API
@section @acronym{X.509} certificate API
@cindex X.509 Functions

The following functions are to be used for @acronym{X.509} certificate handling.
Their prototypes lie in @file{gnutls/x509.h}.

@include x509-api.texi

@node PKCS 7 API
@section @acronym{PKCS} 7 API

The following functions are to be used for PKCS 7 structures handling.
Their prototypes lie in @file{gnutls/pkcs7.h}.

@include pkcs7-api.texi

@node OCSP API
@section @acronym{OCSP} API
@cindex OCSP Functions

The following functions are for @acronym{OCSP} certificate status
checking.  Their prototypes lie in @file{gnutls/ocsp.h}.

@include ocsp-api.texi

@node PKCS 12 API
@section PKCS 12 API

The following functions are to be used for PKCS 12 handling.
Their prototypes lie in @file{gnutls/pkcs12.h}.

@include pkcs12-api.texi

@node PKCS 11 API
@section Hardware token via PKCS 11 API

The following functions are to be used for PKCS 11 handling.
Their prototypes lie in @file{gnutls/pkcs11.h}.

@include pkcs11-api.texi

@node TPM API
@section TPM API

The following functions are to be used for TPM handling.
Their prototypes lie in @file{gnutls/tpm.h}.

@include tpm-api.texi

@node Abstract key API
@section Abstract key API

The following functions are to be used for abstract key handling.
Their prototypes lie in @file{gnutls/abstract.h}.

@include abstract-api.texi

@node Socket specific API
@section Socket specific API

The prototypes for the following functions lie in
@file{gnutls/socket.h}.
@include socket-api.texi

@node DANE API
@section DANE API

The following functions are to be used for DANE certificate verification.
Their prototypes lie in @file{gnutls/dane.h}. Note that you need to link
with the @code{libgnutls-dane} library to use them.

@include dane-api.texi

@node Cryptographic API
@section Cryptographic API

The following functions are to be used for low-level cryptographic operations.
Their prototypes lie in @file{gnutls/crypto.h}.

@include crypto-api.texi

@node Compatibility API
@section Compatibility API

The following functions are carried over from old GnuTLS released. They might be removed at a later version.
Their prototypes lie in @file{gnutls/compat.h}.

@include compat-api.texi
